so imagine that you had your smartphone
miniaturized and hooked up directly to
your brain now if you had two sort of
brain chip be able to upload and
download to the Internet at the speed of
thought accessing social media or
Wikipedia would be a lot like well from
the inside at least like consulting your
own memory would be as easy and as
intimate as thinking but would it make
it easier for you to know what's true
just because a way of accessing
information is faster it doesn't mean
it's more reliable of course and it
doesn't mean that we would all interpret
it the same way and it doesn't mean that
you would be any better at evaluating it
in fact it might even be worse because
you know more data less time for
evaluation you know something like this
is already happening to us right now
we already carry a world of information
around in our pockets but it seems as if
the more information that we share and
access online the more difficult it can
be for us to tell the difference between
what's real and what's fake
it's as if we know more but understand
less now you know it's a feature of
modern life I suppose that large swathes
of the public live in isolated
information bubbles you know we're
polarized not just over values but over
the facts and one reason for that is
that the data analytics that drive the
internet get us not just more
information but more of the information
that we want our online life is
personalized everything from the ads we
read to the news that comes down our
Facebook feed is tailored to satisfy our
preferences and so while we get more
information a lot of that information
ends up reflecting ourselves as much as
it does reality it ends up I suppose
inflating our bubbles rather than
bursting them and so maybe it's no
surprise that were in a situation a
paradoxical situation of thinking that
we know so much more and yet not agree
on what it is we know so how are we
going to solve this problem of knowledge
polarization but one obvious you know
tactic is to try to fix our technology
to redesign our digital platforms so as
to be make them less susceptible to
polarization and I'm happy to report
that many smart people at Google and
Facebook are working on just that and
these projects are vital and I think
that fixing technology is obviously
really important but I don't think that
technology alone fixing it is going to
solve the problem of knowledge
polarization I don't think that because
I don't think at the end of the day it
is a technological problem I think it's
a human problem having to do with how we
think and what we value in order to
solve it I think we're going to need
help we're going to need help from
psychology and and political science but
we're also going to need help I think
from philosophy because to solve the
problem of knowledge polarization we're
going to need to reconnect with one
fundamental philosophical idea that we
live in a common reality now the idea of
a common reality is like I suppose a lot
of philosophical concepts easy to state
but mysteriously difficult to put into
practice to really accept it I think we
need to do three things each of which is
a challenge right now first we need to
believe in truth you might have noticed
that our culture is having something of
a troubled relationship with that
concept right now you know it seems as
if we disagree so much that as one
political commentator put it not long
ago it's as if there are no facts
anymore but that thought that thought is
actually an expression of a sort of
seductive line of argument that that's
in the air it goes like this
we just can't step outside of our own
perspectives we can't step outside of
our biases every time we try we just get
more information from our perspective
so this line of thought goes we might as
well admit that objective truth is an
illusion or it doesn't matter because
either we'll never know what it is
or it doesn't exist in the first place
now that's not a new philosophical
thought skepticism about truth in during
the end of the last century as some of
you know it was very popular in certain
academic circles but it really goes back
all the way to the Greek philosopher
Pythagoras it's not farther back where
Tiger has said that objective truth was
an illusion because man is the measure
of all things man is the measure of all
things that can seem like a bracing bit
of realpolitik the people are liberating
because it allows each of us to discover
our or make our own truth but actually I
think it's a bit of self-serving
rationalization disguised as philosophy
it confuses the difficulty of being
certain with the impossibility of truth
look of course it's difficult to be
certain about anything we might all be
living in the matrix you might have a
brain chip in your head feeding you all
the wrong information but in practice we
do agree on all sorts of facts we agree
that bullets can kill people we agree
that you can't flap your arms and fly we
agree or we should that there is an
external reality and ignoring it can get
you hurt nonetheless skepticism about
truth can be tempting because it allows
us to rationalize way around biases when
we do that we're sort of like the guy in
the movie who knew he was living in the
matrix but decided he liked it there
anyway after all getting what you want
feels good being right all the time
feels good so often it's easier for us
to wrap ourselves in our cozy in
information bubbles Riven bad-faith and
take those bubbles as the measure of
reality an example I think of how this
bad faith gets into our action is our
reaction to the phenomenon of fake news
the big news that spread on the Internet
during the American presidential
election of 2016 was designed to feed
into our biases designed to inflate our
bubbles but what was really striking
about it was not just that it fooled so
many people what was really striking to
me about fake news the phenomenon is how
quickly itself became the subject of
knowledge polarization so much so that
the very term the very term fake news
now just means new story I don't like
that's an example of the bad faith
towards the truth that I'm talking about
but the really I think dangerous thing
about skepticism with regard to truth is
that it leads to despotism man is the
measure of all things inevitably becomes
the man is the measure of all things
just as you know every man for himself
always seems to turn out to be only the
strong survive at the end of where Wells
1984 the thought policeman O'Brien is
torturing the protagonist Winston Smith
into believing 2+2 equals 5 what Orion
says is the point is that he wants to
convince Smith that whatever the party
says is the truth and the truth is
whatever the party says and what O'Brien
knows is that once this thought is
accepted critical dissent is impossible
you can't speak truth to power if the
power speaks truth by definition okay so
I said that in order to accept that we
really live in a common reality we have
to do
the first thing is to believe in truth
the second thing could be summed up by
the Latin phrase that caught took as the
motto for the Enlightenment safer out or
dare to know or as contrasted dare to
know for yourself now I think in the
early days of the internet a lot of us
thought that information technology was
always going to make it easier for us to
know for ourselves and and of course in
many ways it has but as the Internet has
become more and more a part of our lives
our reliance on it our use of it has
become often more passive much of what
we know today we Google now we download
prepackaged sets of facts and sort of
shuffle them along the assembly line of
social media now Google knowing is
useful precisely because it involves a
sort of intellectual outsourcing we
offload our effort onto a network of
others and algorithms and that allows us
of course to not clutter our minds with
all sorts of facts we can just download
them when we need them and that's
awesome but there's a difference between
downloading a set of facts and really
understanding how or why those facts are
as they are understanding why a
particular disease spreads or how a
mathematical proof works or why your
friend is depressed involves more than
just downloading it's going to require
most likely doing some work for yourself
having a little creative insight using
your imagination getting out into the
field doing the experiment working
through the proof talking to someone
now I'm not saying of course that we
should stop Google now I'm just saying
we shouldn't overvalue it either we need
to find ways of encouraging forms of
knowing that are more active and don't
always involve passing off our effort
into our bubble because the thing about
Google knowing is that too often it ends
up being bubble knowing and bubble
knowing means always being right but
daring to know bearing to understand
means risking the possibility that you
could be wrong it means risking the
possibility that what you want and
what's true are different things which
brings me to the third thing that I
think we need to do if we want to accept
that we live in a common reality that
third thing is have a little humility a
humility here I mean epistemic humility
which means just in a sense knowing that
you don't know it all but it also means
something more than that it means seeing
your worldview is open to improvement by
the evidence and experience of others
seeing your worldview is open to
improvement by the evidence and
experience of others that's more than
just being open to change it's more than
just being open to self improvement it
means seeing your knowledge as capable
of enhancing or being a rich by what
others contribute that part of what it's
involved in recognizing that there's a
common reality that you two are
responsible to now I don't think it's
much of a stretch to say that our
society is not particularly great at
enhancing or encouraging that sort of
humility I mean that's partly because
well we tend to confuse arrogance and
confidence and it's partly because well
you know arrogance is just easier it's
just easier to think of yourself as
knowing it all it's just easier as
thinking of yourself as as having it all
figure it out but that's another example
the bad faith towards the truth I've
been talking about
so the concept of a common reality like
a lot of philosophical concepts can seem
so obvious that we can look right past
it and forget why it's important
democracies can't function if their
citizens don't strive at least some of
the time to inhabit a common space a
space where they can pass ideas back and
forth when and especially when they
disagree but you can't strive to inhabit
that space if you don't already accept
that you live in the same reality to
accept that we've got to believe in
truth we've got to encourage more active
ways of knowing and we've got to have
the humility to realize that we're not
the measure of all things we may yet one
day realize the vision of having the
Internet in our brains but if we want
that to be liberating and not terrifying
if we wanted to expand our understanding
and not just our passes knowing we need
to remember that our perspectives as
wondrous as beautiful as they are are
just that perspectives on one reality
thank
[Applause]
you